SAM aka Segment Anything Model (#127)
creatis-myriad/creatis-myriad.github.io: collections/_posts/2023-04-11-SAM.md

![](/collections/images/SAM/instance_segmentation.jpg)

![](/collections/images/SAM/mask_quality_rating_COCO_LVIS.jpg)

In comparison with ViTDet-H, SAM's performance is not as good but is not far. According to human rates it is better. The case of COCO is particular as the ground truth has many defaults, that are learned by the network, what SAM doesn't do.

## Text to mask

Segmenting an image from text input is a proof of concept of SAM’s ability to process text prompt. This time SAM is trained differently but without the need of new text annotation. For each masks with an area $$>100^2$$, the CLIP image embedding is extracted and during training those embeddings are prompted at its first interaction. During the inference the text is run through CLIP’s text encoder which is then prompted to SAM.

![](/collections/images/SAM/text_to_mask.jpg)

## Ablations

The ablations concern the SA-1B dataset and the architecture of SAM.

![](/collections/images/SAM/ablation_study.jpg)

The performance increase through all the data engine steps but in the end only images with automatically generated masks are kept to simplify setup training.

# Discussion

> Models are almost always dedicated to a particular task, but here the foundation model trained on a very large dataset is then adapted to many tasks. However, generally foundation models are auto-supervised wherease here it is initialised with MAE that is based on a supervised work.

Reviewer: wherease -> whereas
+
To clear the confusion with MAE being supervised or not as pointed out by Gaspard, I would suggest to rephrase things in the folloing way:
_it is initialised with a MAE trained using supervised labels._

The goal of SAM is to be used in composition system (like CLIP in DALL-E) in order to get new capabilities that were not even thought about at its creation. To do so, SAM needs to predict a valid mask for a wide range of segmentation
prompts in order to create a good interface between SAM and other components.

> It still has some limitations, there are some errors missing small structures or creating small disconnected components, and does not produce boundaries as crisply as more computationally intensive methods. Given the fact that it is a very generic segmentation model which goal is to perform with zero transfer learning, it is expected that all dedicated interactive segmentation methods to outperform SAM. Another limitation is the computational time: it is said to be real-time but it is not really the case when using a heavy image encoder. Finally even if SAM performs many tasks, it is not easy to design simple prompts that implements semantic and panoptic segmentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It still has some limitations, there are some errors missing small structures or creating small disconnected components and does not produce boundaries as crisply as more computationally intensive methods. Given the fact that it is a very generic segmentation model whose goal is to perform with zero transfer learning, it is expected that all dedicated interactive segmentation methods outperform SAM. Another limitation is the computational time: it is said to be real-time but it is not really the case when using a heavy image encoder. Finally even if SAM performs many tasks, it is not easy to design simple prompts that implement semantic and panoptic segmentation.
```
